Israel's war cabinet has met for a
second time in less than 24 hours to
discuss how to respond to Iran's
unprecedented drone and missile attack
the government has not made public
whether a decision had been reached
during the late night meeting but
reiterated that there will be a response
meanwhile the White House has described
Iran's attack on Israel over the weekend
as a spectacular and embarrassing
failure nearly all of the more than 300
missiles and drones were shot down
earlier s shahata from BBC Arabic
explained what we've learned about
Israel's next moves this is no decision
was announced yet but uh the agreement
within the cabinet is about a response
uh the uh military Chief of Staff Mr
hery halvi said the Iranian attack will
be met with a response but the
discussing the uh the scale and timing
of the response because this will affect
if will be escalation or
how the Iranian respond because Iranian
said what Israeli done to strike the
Iranian Consulate in Damascus was a
strategic mistake and what we what we
the Iranian done was like a self-defense
so in this case that's it but Israeli
think it's damaging its reputation as
Superior power in the uh in the Middle
East so to be attacked on its soil by
all of that even the damage was minimal
inside the Israel it looks like a damage
for its reputation as a super superpower
so there is pressure on the cabinet and
on the Mr Netanyahu to make a response
however there is pressure also from
United States and other like United
Kingdom and Mr Cameron the uh foreign
secretary the British foreign Ministry
uh secretary said should be Israel
should be smart it was a failure so they
Tred to minimize the effect of the
Iranian strike because the damage was
minimal so they are the Israeli between
uh two pressures one from inside and
from outside respond or not and this
like situation will be escalating if
there is a response according to America
and other allies to Israel that was BBC
Arabic s shahata well let's speak to our
Middle East correspondent who is in
Jerusalem your land at Nell your land
it's good to have you now what more are
we hearing from Israeli
officials I mean we're not hearing
anything much on the record uh but a
very clear message has being being sent
in general that they will um retaliate
for the unprecedented Iranian attack in
the early hours of Sunday morning um we
had the Israeli military's Chief of
Staff uh going to the ne Team Air Base
it was one of the the few sites um that
was actually hit by ballistic missiles
um in that attack um it suffered minor
damage um and he was addressing the Air
Force pilots there and saying to them
that uh really that attack the use of so
many um missiles and drones uh could not
go um unmet and he was also
complimenting them on their capabilities
and their preparations um should their
uh Services be required as part of that
retaliation um of course there are other
means at Israel's disposable they could
uh go for something sort of more in
terms of asymmetric Warfare uh the likes
of uh the stuck net computer worm that
we saw in the past that was used to
effectively uh disable key parts of
Iran's uh nuclear program uh this has
been a shadow War that's gone on for so
many years between Israel and Iran uh
but now what's happened in recent days
has really uh pushed things into the
open it's of course causing so much
concern uh for world leaders uh they are
trying to uh persuade Israel to exercise
restraint um and the real dilemma of
Israel's war cabinet is how to send a
powerful message to Iran uh but at the
same time uh not escalate things in the
region in an extremely dangerous way now
Iran has been uh claiming that it gave
advanced warning about this attack uh
but as far as Israel is concerned how
much of a a blow is this how how serious
an attack or line do they feel has been
crossed I mean certainly they say that
um Iran has broken all red lines this
was the first time that Iran had
launched a direct attack on Israel from
its own territory um but at the same
time uh there is a real effort um by
world leaders and of course uh here in
Israel to to to Really look at this as
having been a success because the attack
was thwarted
99% of the missiles and drones that were
launched were uh brought down and there
was an alliance of Israel and the us the
UK even Jordan in the region um and and
others including uh the French that
really helped here and that showed you
know Israeli leaders have been pointing
out that there is uh a strategic
Alliance there can be Regional
cooperation uh to counter the threat
from Iran Iran has been putting out
signals we saw it again overnight when
the Iranian foreign minister and the
Chinese foreign minister spoke that Iran
itself does not want an escalation it
considers now that it has retaliated for
its first of April um the the 1 of April
attack that it suffered in Damascus when
there was an air strike that killed
seven members of the Revolutionary
guards at the Iranian consulate building
uh in Syria um and the Iranians have
been trying to say that what happened
was their limited response uh for that
deadly attack right really pains how
volatile the situation is in the Middle
East right now yoland Nell thank you so
much for that update